@node Installation
@chapter Installation

@menu
* Installing a Pre-Built Package::
* Building From the Source CD::
* Building From CVS::
@end menu

@node Installing a Pre-Built Package
@section Installing a Pre-Built Package

@menu
* Debian::
* Fedora::
* Gentoo::
* NetBSD::
* Ubuntu::
@end menu

@node Debian
@subsection Debian

@example
apt-get install pcb
@end example

@node Fedora
@subsection Fedora

To automatically download and install the latest version (and
dependencies) from one of the (pre-configured) Fedora repositories:

@example
yum install pcb
@end example

For the installation with yum you need administrator-privileges.

To install a manually downloaded rpm:

@example
yum localinstall <rpmfilename>
@end example

Where <rpmfilename> is the downloaded rpm of your choice.
Required dependencies need to be downloaded and installed simultaneously,
or beforehand.

"localinstall" is used to install a set of local rpm files.
If required the enabled repositories will be used to resolve dependencies.
Note that the install command will do a local install, if given a filename.
This option is maintained for legacy reasons only.

"localupdate" is used to update the system by specifying local rpm files.
Only the specified rpm files of which an older version is already installed will
be installed, the remaining specified packages will be ignored.
If required the enabled repositories will be used to resolve dependencies.
Note that the update command will do a local update, if given a filename.
This option is maintained for legacy reasons only.


@node Gentoo
@subsection Gentoo

@example
emerge pcb
@end example

@node NetBSD
@subsection NetBSD

See @url{ftp://ftp.netbsd.org/pub/NetBSD/packages/pkgsrc/cad/pcb/README.html}.

@node Ubuntu
@subsection Ubuntu

@node Building From the Source CD
@section Building From the Source CD

@node Building From CVS
@section Building From Source

@menu
* Unix/Linux::
* Mac OS/X::
* Cygwin::
@end menu

@node Unix/Linux
@subsection Unix/Linux

@node Mac OS/X
@subsection Mac OS/X

@node Cygwin
@subsection Cygwin
