@node Terminology
@chapter Terminology

@comment wrap terms at their definition
@ifhtml
@macro tdef{TERM}
@html
<a name="\TERM\">\TERM\</a>@end html
@end macro
@end ifhtml

@iftex
@tex
\gdef\tdef#1{%
  \ifpdf
    \pdfdest name{#1} xyz
    \pdfoutline goto name{#1} count 0 {#1}
  \fi
  #1%
}
@end tex
@end iftex

@ifnottex
@ifnothtml
@macro tdef{TERM}
\TERM\
@end macro
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnottex

@comment wrap terms to cross reference
@ifhtml
@macro tref{TERM}
@html
<a href="#\TERM\">\TERM\</a>@end html
@end macro
@macro trefl{TERM,LINK}
@html
<a href="#\LINK\">\TERM\</a>@end html
@end macro
@end ifhtml

@ifnothtml
@macro tref{TERM}
\TERM\
@end macro
@macro trefl{TERM,LINK}
\TERM\
@end macro
@end ifnothtml

@comment image legend
@macro iml{ITXT}
@center @i{\ITXT\}
@end macro

There is some variation in terminology used by EDA packages.  To best
understand the @pcb{} documentation, it's important to read through
these definitions so you understand how @pcb{} uses these terms.

@table @dfn

@item @tdef{action}
Internally, most @code{pcb} commands use a common interface to connect
to the GUI, scripts, and user requests.  We call these internal
commands actions, because they are actions that pcb can take.  Each
action may take parameters, according to their individual
documentation.  Actions are written like function calls, and may be
invoked directly from within @pcb{} using the ':' key.

@item @tdef{annulus}
@itemx @tdef{annular ring}
The donut-shaped ring of copper that surrounds the hole of a
@tref{pin} or @tref{via}.  In @pcb{}, the size of a @tref{pin} or
@tref{via} is the overall diameter of the copper, not the distance
from the outer edge of the hole to the outer edge of the copper.  When
we refer specifically to the size of the annulus, we mean the distance
from the hole's outer edge to the copper's outer edge; i.e. the amount
of copper remaining around a drilled hole.  Example: a 30 @tref{mil}
drilled hole with a 8 @tref{mil} annulus results in a 46 @tref{mil}
pin (30 + 8 + 8).  Likewise, a 50 @tref{mil} pin with a 30 @tref{mil}
drill results in a 10 @tref{mil} annulus.

@img{term-annulus-1}

@item @tdef{aperture}
In reference to @tref{RS-274X} files, an aperture is a brush shape
used to draw things.  Originally, the aperture was a physical hole of
a specific shape and size through which light exposed a photographic
film.

@item @tdef{arc}
A curved trace drawn on a @tref{drawing layer}.

@item @tdef{attribute}
Varied meanings.  @trefl{Elements,element} and @trefl{boards,board}
may have attributes assigned to them, which are arbitrary mappings
between a name and its value.  @pcb{} does not currently use those
attributes itself.  Within @code{pcb} an attribute is an arbitrary
value passed between the core and the various @trefl{HIDs,HID}, such
as checkboxes and file names.

@item @tdef{bloat}
The most that the copper areas can be expanded before they are allowed
to touch.  For example, two 40 @tref{mil} lines 10 @tref{mil} apart can bloat up to
(but not including) 5 @tref{mil} before they touch, so the maximum bloat
would be 4.99 @tref{mil}.

@item @tdef{board}
The physical printed circuit board that is depicted by your @tref{layout}.
``Board'' refers to the physical board, ``@tref{layout}'' refers to the
electronic data.

@item @tdef{buffer}
A temporary storage location within @code{pcb} where items can be
stored until needed later.  One such buffer is used for the common
cut-and-paste operations.

@item @tdef{clad}
A thin layer of copper attached to a thin layer of insulator.  Once
etched, the remaining copper forms the electrical connections
described by the @tref{layout} file.

@item @tdef{clearance}
The distance beween the copper around a hole (the @tref{annulus}) and
the copper in the surrounding @tref{polygon}, or between any other
copper item (@tref{line} or @tref{arc}) and a surrounding
@tref{polygon}.

@img{term-clearance-1}

@item @tdef{courtyard}
The area around an @tref{element} which is still ``used'' by the
@tref{element}, for its electrical and mechanical clearance
requirements.  @pcb{} does not use this term, nor explicitly support a
courtyard definition for @trefl{elements,element}.

@item @tdef{crosshair}
This is the actual location on the @tref{board} which is used when you
perform an @tref{action}.  If @tref{grid} snap is active, the
crosshair reflects the grid point closest to the @tref{cursor}, else
the crosshair reflects the @tref{cursor} itself.

@item @tdef{cursor}
@pcb{} is referring to your mouse cursor.  See ``@tref{crosshair}''.

@item @tdef{drawing layer}
While designing your circuit board, @pcb{} provides a number of
@trefl{layers,layer} to draw on.  While it's convenient to think of
each drawing layer as corresponding to one of the @trefl{physical
layers,physical layer} (copper, silk, etc), it's possible to group
multiple drawing layers together into one @tref{physical layer}, or
assign drawing layers to purposes not corresponding to physical
layers.  For example, you could have two drawing layers corresponding
to your ground plane copper layer, one for the ground plane itself and
a second (differently colored) one for any signals that need to be
routed on the ground plane layer.

@item @tdef{DRC}
Design Rule Check.  Your design is scanned and compared to a number of
design rules, such as minimum trace thickness and spacing, and any
violations are noted.  Then, you are tortured to death with non-modal
dialogs.

@item @tdef{drill file}
A computer-readable file intended to be used by automated drilling
machines.  The information includes drill diameters and locations.
@code{pcb} may produce up to two drill files, one for @trefl{plated
holes,plated hole} and one for @trefl{unplated holes,unplated hole}.
Automated drill machines were originally designed by the Excellon
company, so drill files are sometimes called @trefl{excellon
files,excellon file}.  Also called an @tref{NC drill} file.

@item @tdef{element}
In @pcb{} an element represents any part you might install on your
@tref{board}, such as resistors, capacitors, and integrated circuits.
Note that this also includes anything on your @tref{board} that has
its own @tref{footprint}, even if it doesn't have a part associated
with it, such as test points, registration targets, and edge
connectors.  An element has a @tref{footprint}, but is more than a
@tref{footprint} - it also has a reference designator (refdes), value,
description, and location.  ``@trefl{Footprint,footprint}'' refers to
the pattern; ``element'' refers to the instance.  For example, your
@tref{layout} might have four elements that use one @tref{footprint}.

@img{term-element-1}
@iml{Four examples of elements.}

@item @tdef{etch resist}
Not to be confused with @tref{solder resist}, etch resist is used
during the fabrication of the copper layers to define what copper is
removed and what copper will remain.

@item @tdef{excellon file}
See @tref{drill file}.

@item @tdef{fab}
@itemx @tdef{fab house}
@itemx @tdef{fabrication house}
A company that produces (fabricates) circuit boards from mechanical
design files.  Most accept (or expect) @tref{gerber} (@tref{RS-274X})
format files.

@item @tdef{fab drawing}
@itemx @tdef{fabrication drawing}
A drawing that shows a mechanical overview of the @tref{board},
including the physical outline and all physical holes.  This is often
used by @trefl{fabs,fab} to sanity check their interpretation of your
design files.

@item @tdef{footprint}
A footprint is the pattern on a circuit board to which your parts are
attached.  This includes all copper, silk, @tref{solder mask}, and
@trefl{paste,solder paste} information.  In other EDA programs, this
may be referred to as a ``land pattern''.  ``Footprint'' sometimes is
used to refer to a footprint file.  ``Footprint'' refers to the
pattern; ``@tref{element}'' refers to the instance.  For example, your
@tref{layout} might have four @trefl{elements,element} that use one
footprint.

@item @tdef{footprint file}
A file that contains a single @tref{footprint} definition.  Normally,
this means it describes one @tref{element}, although there are
exceptions.

@item @tdef{FR4}
A specification for the insulating layer used in printed circuit board
manufacture.  FR4 is the most common grade, and is often an epoxy
fiberglass composite.

@item @tdef{gEDA}
The GPL'd Electronic Design Automation suite of tools.  See
@url{http://www.geda.seul.org}.  It includes, among other things, the
@code{gschem} schematic editor, which produces input that @code{pcb}
can use.

@item @tdef{gerber}
@itemx @tdef{gerber file}
The common name for an @tref{RS-274X} formatted file.  Originally
named after the Gerber Photoplotter Company.

@item @tdef{grid}
A pattern of locations on the @tref{board} which can be displayed, or
used as a limit on @tref{crosshair} locations.

@item @tdef{gschem}
The schematic editor that comes with @tref{gEDA}.

@item @tdef{HID}
Human Interface Device.  We use this term to refer to user interfaces,
printers, exporters, and other ways that @code{pcb} interacts with
humans.

@item @tdef{keepout}
A region created by the designer solely to prevent something else from
existing there.  For example, an @tref{element} with a copper keepout
would prevent the autorouter from routing traces through that area.
@pcb{} does not currently support keepouts.

@item @tdef{layer}
There are two meanings of ``layer'' in @pcb{}.  See ``@tref{drawing layer}''
 and ``@tref{physical layer}''.

@item @tdef{layout}
The @tref{board} design information depicted by the edits you've made;
this is what's stored in a pcb file and displayed on the screen.
``@trefl{Board,board}'' refers to the physical board, ``layout''
refers to the electronic data.

@item @tdef{line}
A straight segment drawn on a @tref{drawing layer}.

@item @tdef{mark}
Normally, @code{pcb} reports coordinates relative to the origin (upper
left) of the board.  However, you can designate a location on the
@tref{board} such that @code{pcb} also reports coordinates relative to
that location.  Such a location is the mark, and is drawn with an X
shape.  @trefl{Elements,element} also have a mark; this is the local
origin from which other locations within the @tref{element} are
measured.  @trefl{Element,element} marks are drawn as small diamonds.

@img{term-mark-1}
@iml{crosshair mark, element mark}


@item @tdef{mask}
See ``@tref{solder mask}''.

@item @tdef{mil}
In @pcb{} a mil is 0.001 inch, or a ``milli-inch''.  Other packages
may call it a ``@tref{thou}'', short for a thousandth of an inch.

@item @tdef{NC drill}
Numerically Controlled Drill file.  See ``@tref{drill file}''.

@item @tdef{negative layer}
@itemx @tdef{negative plane}
For most @trefl{drawing layers,drawing layer}, the stuff you draw
corresponds to stuff that exists in a @tref{physical layer}.  For
example, a @tref{trace} drawn on a copper layer results in copper
existing on the @tref{board}.  For negative layers, however, what you
draw results in what does @emph{not} exist on the board.  The
@tref{solder mask} @tref{gerber}, for example, is such a layer - a
circle drawn in the @tref{solder mask} gerber results in a hole in the
physical @tref{solder mask}.  @code{pcb} represents such layers in a
meaningful way on the screen, but exporters may use a negative layer
according to the needs of the fabrication process.

@item @tdef{netlist}
A list of symbolic electrical connections, normally provided as input
to @code{pcb} from a schematic layout program, which represents the
desired electrical connectivity of the board.  @pcb{} can compare the
desired (loaded) netlist with the actual (copper) netlist and advise
you of shorts or unrouted connections.  If there are unrouted
connections, it can use those to create a @tref{rat's nest} to assist
you in routing them.

@item @tdef{outline}
The physical shape and dimension of your physical @tref{board}.  By
default, this is a rectangle the size of your working area (the
``board size''), but if you name one of the @tref{drawing layers}
``outline'' that is used instead.  While your @tref{board} is itself a
polygon shape, a @tref{polygon} drawing object is not used to denote
its outline - by convention, 10 @tref{mil} wide @trefl{lines,line} are
used to draw the outline, and the centerlines of those lines indicate
the actual outline edges.

@item @tdef{pad}
An electrical connection to an @tref{element} which does not require a
through hole, for example as used by a surface mounted device.

@img{term-pad-1}
@iml{Surface-mount element with eight pads.}

@item @tdef{paste}
See ``@tref{solder paste}''.

@item @tdef{paste stencil}
A thin sheet, usually plastic or metal and 0.002 to 0.005 inches
thick, with holes where solder @trefl{paste,solder paste} should be applied to your
board.

@item @tdef{pcb file}
A file used by @code{pcb} to store board layout.  Such files end in
@code{.pcb} and are normally readable (and editable) text files.

@item @tdef{pcb units}
Internally, @code{pcb} maintains all measurements in its own units,
which are smaller than both @trefl{mils,mil} and millimeters.  These are the
default units used in @pcb{} files.  At the time this text was written,
@code{pcb} units are 1/100 of a @tref{mil}, or
@iftex
@math{10^{-5}}
@end iftex
@ifhtml
@html
10<sup>-5</sup>
@end html
@end ifhtml
@ifnottex
@ifnothtml
0.00001
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnottex
inches.

@item @tdef{pin}
An electrical connection to an @tref{element} which requires a through
hole, for example as needed by a DIP socket.  Contrast with a
@tref{pad}.  Note that pins and @trefl{vias,via} are mechanically
identical, although pins default to @tref{untented} while
@trefl{vias,via} default to @tref{tented}.

@img{term-pin-1}
@iml{DIP element with eight pins.}

@item @tdef{physical layer}
In the manufacture of circuit boards, a physical layer is, for
example, each layer of copper, each side's @tref{silkscreen}, the
@tref{solder mask}, the @tref{paste stencil}, the physical outline,
etc.  Each physical layer requires a single layer definition to be
produced by @code{pcb}; for professional @trefl{fabs,fab} there is one
@tref{gerber} file for each physical layer.

@item @tdef{plated hole}
@itemx @tdef{plated through hole}
@itemx @tdef{PTH}
During fabrication, some holes become coated with copper which
connects all the copper layers together at that point.  Since this is
normally done by electroplating, such holes are called ``plated''
holes, and normally have a copper @tref{annulus} around them.

@img{term-platedhole-1}
@iml{Plated and Unplated holes.}

@item @tdef{polygon}
A polygon defines the ouline of a drawn region on a @tref{drawing
layer}.  When used on a @tref{drawing layer} representing a copper
@tref{physical layer}, it causes a copper polygon to exist in the
final board, for example.  Unlike @trefl{lines,line} and
@trefl{arcs,arc}, a polygon does not have a ``thickness'' as the lines
define the exact boundary of the shape.

@item @tdef{rat}
@itemx @tdef{rat lines}
@itemx @tdef{rat list}
@itemx @tdef{rat's nest}
A rat is a symbolic visual representation of an unconnected electrical
connection - i.e. something in the @tref{netlist} which doesn't exist
as a @tref{trace} yet.  It's called a rat's nest because of its messy
appearance when first created, from that, the individual connections
were named rat lines or just rats.  In a @pcb{} file, the rat list is
a list of all rats that exist on the board; this isn't always the same
as the @tref{netlist}, because you may choose to work with a subset of
the @tref{netlist} at a time, or hide the rats completely.  Many
@code{pcb} functions use a rat list to determine which connections to
work with; it is important to update the rats list before using such
functions.

@item @tdef{rectangle}
A special case of @tref{polygon}.

@item @tdef{resist}
In @pcb{} this usually means the @tref{etch resist}.

@item @tdef{route}
In @pcb{} this term is a verb, meaning to add and arrange
@trefl{traces,trace} so as to properly reflect the @tref{netlist}.
Other packages may use this term to reflect the @tref{outline}, but
@pcb{} does not.

@item @tdef{route style}
A collection of sizes, such as @tref{trace} thickness, drill diameter,
@tref{pin} size, and @tref{clearance}, which is used when routing
@trefl{traces,trace}.  @pcb{} can keep track of at least four styles,
which you can quickly switch between.

@item @tdef{RS-274D}
@itemx @tdef{RS-274X}
A file format used originally by photoplotters, but now used by any
machine used to fabricate circuit boards.  The D variant requires a
separate file defining all the @trefl{apertures,aperture}, and is
considered obsolete.  The X variant is newer and includes the
@tref{aperture} definitions.  Since these formats were defined by the
Gerber Photoplotter company, they are commonly known as
``@tref{gerber} files''.  Although there is no ``owner'' of the
RS-274X spec, it can be found at various places online such as
@url{http://www.artwork.com/gerber/274x/rs274xrevd_e.pdf}.

@item @tdef{shrink}
The most that a copper area can decrease in size before it no longer
touches (overlaps) an adjacent copper area.

@item @tdef{silk}
@itemx @tdef{silkscreen}
A layer of ink or pigment drawn on the circuit board (usually, one for
each side of the board) in order to include, for example, part numbers
or @tref{element} outlines.

@item @tdef{solder mask}
A layer of heat resistant film placed over the outermost copper layers
of your board, to prevent solder from sticking to any covered copper.
When used to cover @trefl{traces,trace} routed between
@trefl{pins,pin} or @trefl{pads,pad}, this can help avoid shorts to
those @trefl{traces,trace}.  Note that when shown in @code{pcb} the
mask is drawn where the film exists, but when output (to postscript or
@tref{gerber}, for example), it is often ``drawn'' where the mask is
to be @emph{removed}.

@item @tdef{solder resist}
See @tref{solder mask}.

@item @tdef{solder paste}
Ground up solder mixed with flux.  This paste is normally squeegeed
through a paste stencil to deposit a measured amount of paste on each
@tref{pad} on the board.  Once the paste is applied, parts can be
positioned on the paste, and the board heated - which melts the paste
and solders the parts to the board.

@item @tdef{tented}
When a circuit board is made with a @tref{solder mask}, you have the
option of opening a hole in the mask over @trefl{vias,via}, or leaving
the @trefl{mask,solder mask} intact over them.  A @tref{via} with an
intact @trefl{mask,solder mask} over it is tented, as the
@trefl{mask,solder mask} acts like a tent over the copper and hole.

@img{term-tented-1}
@iml{Tented and untented vias.}

@item @tdef{thermal}
@itemx @tdef{thermal relief}
Since copper is an efficient heat sink, connections to a large region
of copper would be very difficult to solder - the copper heat sink
prevents you from adequately heating the connection.  To fix this,
small cutouts are made around each such connection to create a thermal
barrier, so that heat applied to the connection stays at the
connection.  Such a set of cutouts, and the copper bridges that
remain, is called a ``thermal''.  Thermals come in many patterns,
which allows the designer to ensure adequate electrical connectivity
and/or manufacturability.

@img{term-thermal-1}
@iml{Pins with no connection, three types of thermals, and no thermal.}

@item @tdef{thickness}
In @pcb{} this often refers to the width of a @tref{line} or
@tref{arc}, not the thickness of the copper film used to produce the
@tref{board}.  This is also the ``size'' of a @tref{line} or
@tref{arc}.

@img{term-thickness-1}

@item @tdef{thin draw}
A mode used by @code{pcb}'s GUI by which board objects are drawn as
thin lines (or outlines) rather than as actual-width lines.  This mode
is useful for detail work where the size of the objects would
otherwise obscure their relationship to each other.

@item @tdef{thou}
See ``@tref{mil}''.

@item @tdef{toner transfer}
@itemx @tdef{TT}
A home-fabrication method that involves printing a layer with a laser
printer, and transferring the toner from that print to an unetched
copper board.  The toner acts as an @tref{etch resist}.

@item @tdef{trace}
Any copper added to a copper layer whose purpose is to connect
electrical signals between @trefl{elements,element}.  Traces may be
built up from @trefl{lines,line}, @trefl{arcs,arc}, and
@trefl{polygons,polygon}.

@item @tdef{unplated hole}
During fabrication, some holes are drilled after electroplating, and
so do not receive the copper that would otherwise connect layers.
Such holes are unplated holes, and normally do not have a copper
@tref{annulus} around them either.

@img{term-platedhole-1}
@iml{Plated and Unplated holes.}

@item @tdef{untented}
When a hole is placed in the @tref{solder mask} in order to expose a
@tref{via} below it, such a via is untented.  Untented
@trefl{vias,via} are available as test points or places to add wires
later.

@item @tdef{via}
A via is a connection between different copper layers.  In @pcb{} all
vias are ``through'' vias, in that they connect copper on all layers.

@end table
