OSHW

This page hosts the current proposed Open Source Hardware (OSHW)
Statement of Principles and Definition v1.0.

The statement of principles is a high-level overview of the ideals of
open-source hardware.

The definition is an attempt to apply those ideals to a standard by
which to evaluate licenses for hardware designs.


Open Source Hardware (OSHW) Statement of Principles 1.0.

Open source hardware is hardware whose design is made publicly available
so that anyone can study, modify, distribute, make, and sell the design
or hardware based on that design.

The hardware's source, the design from which it is made, is available in
the preferred format for making modifications to it.

Ideally, open source hardware uses readily-available components and
materials, standard processes, open infrastructure, unrestricted
content, and open-source design tools to maximize the ability of
individuals to make and use hardware.

Open source hardware gives people the freedom to control their
technology while sharing knowledge and encouraging commerce through the
open exchange of designs.


Open Source Hardware (OSHW) Definition 1.0.

OSHW Draft Definition 1.0 is based on the Open Source Definition for
Open Source Software and draft OSHW definition 0.5.

The definition is derived from the Open Source Definition, which was
created by Bruce Perens and the Debian developers as the Debian Free
Software Guidelines.


Introduction

Open Source Hardware (OSHW) is a term for tangible artifacts
-- machines, devices, or other physical things
-- whose design has been released to the public in such a way that
   anyone can make, modify, distribute, and use those things.

This definition is intended to help provide guidelines for the
development and evaluation of licenses for Open Source Hardware.

Hardware is different from software in that physical resources must
always be committed for the creation of physical goods.

Accordingly, persons or companies producing items ("products") under an
OSHW license have an obligation to make it clear that such products are
not manufactured, sold, warrantied, or otherwise sanctioned by the
original designer and also not to make use of any trademarks owned by
the original designer.

The distribution terms of Open Source Hardware must comply with the
following criteria:


1. Documentation

The hardware must be released with documentation including design files,
and must allow modification and distribution of the design files.

Where documentation is not furnished with the physical product, there
must be a well-publicized means of obtaining this documentation for no
more than a reasonable reproduction cost, preferably downloading via the
Internet without charge.

The documentation must include design files in the preferred format for
making changes, for example the native file format of a CAD program.

Deliberately obfuscated design files are not allowed.

Intermediate forms analogous to compiled computer code -- such as
printer-ready copper artwork from a CAD program -- are not allowed as
substitutes.

The license may require that the design files are provided in
fully-documented, open format(s).


2. Scope

The documentation for the hardware must clearly specify what portion of
the design, if not all, is being released under the license.


3. Necessary Software

If the licensed design requires software, embedded or otherwise, to
operate properly and fulfill its essential functions, then the license
may require that one of the following conditions are met:

a) The interfaces are sufficiently documented such that it could
   reasonably be considered straightforward to write open source
   software that allows the device to operate properly and fulfill its
   essential functions.
   For example, this may include the use of detailed signal timing
   diagrams or pseudocode to clearly illustrate the interface in
   operation.

b) The necessary software is released under an OSI-approved open source
   license.


4. Derived Works

The license shall allow modifications and derived works, and shall allow
them to be distributed under the same terms as the license of the
original work.

The license shall allow for the manufacture, sale, distribution, and use
of products created from the design files, the design files themselves,
and derivatives thereof.


5. Free redistribution

The license shall not restrict any party from selling or giving away the
project documentation.

The license shall not require a royalty or other fee for such sale.

The license shall not require any royalty or fee related to the sale of
derived works.


6. Attribution

The license may require derived documents, and copyright notices
associated with devices, to provide attribution to the licensors when
distributing design files, manufactured products, and/or derivatives
thereof.

The license may require that this information be accessible to the
end-user using the device normally, but shall not specify a specific
format of display.

The license may require derived works to carry a different name or
version number from the original design.


7. No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups

The license must not discriminate against any person or group of persons.


8. No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor

The license must not restrict anyone from making use of the work
(including manufactured hardware) in a specific field of endeavor.

For example, it must not restrict the hardware from being used in a
business, or from being used in nuclear research.


9. Distribution of License

The rights granted by the license must apply to all to whom the work is
redistributed without the need for execution of an additional license by
those parties.


10. License Must Not Be Specific to a Product

The rights granted by the license must not depend on the licensed work
being part of a particular product.

If a portion is extracted from a work and used or distributed within the
terms of the license, all parties to whom that work is redistributed
should have the same rights as those that are granted for the original
work.


11. License Must Not Restrict Other Hardware or Software

The license must not place restrictions on other items that are
aggregated with the licensed work but not derivative of it.

For example, the license must not insist that all other hardware sold
with the licensed item be open source, nor that only open source
software be used external to the device.


12. License Must Be Technology-Neutral

No provision of the license may be predicated on any individual
technology, specific part or component, material, or style of interface
or use thereof.


Afterword

The signatories of this Open Source Hardware definition recognize that
the open source movement represents only one way of sharing information.

We encourage and support all forms of openness and collaboration,
whether or not they fit this definition.

Licenses and Hardware
In promoting Open Hardware, it is important to make it clear to
designers the extent to which their licenses actually can control their
designs.

Under U.S. law, and law in many other places, copyright does not apply
to electronic designs.

Patents do.

The result is that an Open Hardware license can in general be used to
restrict the plans but not the manufactured devices or even restatements
of the same design that are not textual copies of the original.

The applicable section of copyright law is 17.102(b), which says:

In no case does copyright protection for an original work of authorship
extend to any idea, procedure, process, system, method of operation,
concept, principle, or discovery, regardless of the form in which it is
described, explained, illustrated, or embodied in such work.


